[applause]
[music]
All right. Hello everybody.
All right. Let me look at my notes which
says, "I'm Barry Rholtz. [laughter] I'm
the host of Masters in Business, a
podcast uh that's been on Bloomberg for
the past um 11 years. The first
Bloomberg podcast. Now there are dozens
many many award-winning podcasts. Forgot
to button my shirt after they ran the
backup mic. Um so let's get that taken
care of since we're on TV. Um so most of
you have some idea who I am. Uh Sam, why
don't you tell people who you are? Uh my
name is Samantha McLemore. Uh I'm the
founder and CIO of Patient Capital
Management. I I started my career many
many years ago now. I don't know how
it's been so long as an analyst at
LegMason uh working for Bill Miller who
was a very well-known uh value manager.
>> So I want to talk a little bit about
your time with Bill Miller. But before
we get to that, let's start in college.
Magnaum Laai from Washington and Lee.
Originally chemistry, but eventually
changes to accounting and business. What
was the original career plan?
>> Well, I I didn't have so much a plan
when I first decided to major in
chemistry. I took chemistry in high
school and thought I was really good at
it. And then I got to so I was like,
I'll major in this. I I like to be good
at things. And I got to college and that
first class I quickly realized I was not
so good at it. you know, I' I'd never
worked so hard for a B. And so I was
like, you know, and some of my friends
were, you know, doing much better. So I
was like, no, that's not [laughter]
we're going to have to reexamine this
whole thing. So I wound up in the
business school because I was analytical
and that was a much better fit.
>> So accounting and business, not
necessarily finance and investing. When
when did that spark light?
>> Uh well, it was they didn't have a
finance degree at the business school.
So again, I was very good at accounting.
it just came naturally. I don't know
what that says about my brain, but um
and I got involved with the investment
club. I'd had some investing experience
with my dad who tried to get me
interested in markets in high school. Um
you know, in the late 90s, it was a
roaring tech uh bull market much like
we're seeing today, although I don't
think we're peak bubble. Uh and he
bought Dell and I had some funds that
were for college. So he had invested
those and tried to get me engaged. So,
I'd had a little bit of experience in
high school and then I joined the
investment club and I just liked that a
lot.
>> How did you find your way over to Leg
Mason? Was that your first job right out
of college?
>> That was and I like to say I won the job
lottery because uh it was the fall of
2001. So, now we were in the tech market
crash. It wasn't a great job market. Uh
fortunately, uh you know, there were a
lot of investment banks recruiting from
my alma mater. So, my plan was to go
there. I was ready to do the
all-nighters in New York and Bill who
also went to Washington happened to come
back uh you know the fall of my senior
year. He did um some speaking. He met
with the investment club and I got very
lucky. I asked him if I could send him
my resume and he said sure. So I sent
him my resume uh and and joined him as a
junior junior analyst right out of
college. So, so I imagine Bill Miller
comes to an investment club at his alma
mada and every person is handing him a
resume. Is that accurate or were people
a little more circumstanced?
>> You would think. I mean, if I have
advice to young people, it's like,
>> give Bill Miller your resume.
>> Give anyone your resume. Go after it. Go
for the job. Everyone said there's no
way you can get a job in investment
management. And so, I just think people
thought, okay, this isn't what, you
know, I'll go do banking. I'm not going
to try. So actually I think I was the
only the only one that sent in my
resume.
>> Yeah.
>> The only one that asked to do that.
>> There's there's a lesson in that. So you
start as an analyst at Leg Mason. How
long did you do that? When did you
transition to a portfolio manager?
>> I was an analyst uh for a few years. So
I started in 2002 and became the
assistant portfolio manager of the
Opportunity Trust, which is the mutual
fund that Bill and I worked on for many
years together that I now run. um in
2008 in in August of 2008. Right.
>> Good timing.
>> Yeah. Right before the markets fell
apart during the financial crisis.
>> The next month was all hell broke. We
we'll talk about that in a bit. Um but
you spent 20 years working pretty much
shouldertoshoulder with Bill Miller.
What was that like? Uh what did you take
away from that experience?
>> I mean it was amazing. I I can't express
how lucky I was. I was just so lucky. I
you know I think it's an apprenticeship
business. So I really my desk was always
right beside Bills and he liked to teach
and uh so I would go in his office, we
would look at the Bloomberg and uh you
know look at stock charts and I got to
attend a lot of meetings uh with great
CEOs. Jeff Bezos spoke at our investment
conference in 2003, the year after I
joined, and I got to hear his speech and
be in some meetings with him. And so I
couldn't have been luckier in terms of
what I was exposed to and that learning
opportunity.
>> So it's kind of interesting. You work
with a legendary value investor who is
doesn't really fit the mold of a
traditional value investor. Um, how much
of his philosophy did you make your own?
How similar or different are you to the
Bill Miller style of investing?
>> Well, we have a lot of similarities. I
think that's one of the reasons we hit
it off. And, you know, I I would say at
my core, I'm a contrarian value
investor. I didn't grow up with a lot of
money. I had to make money go far. I
looked at the markets. I liked stuff
that was down that was generating cash.
Bill and I uh, you know, when I first
applied, talked about Eastman Kodak,
which ended up being one of our biggest
mistakes, both of us, but we kind of
bonded over that. And what was much more
um you know transformational to me was
Bill's view and he was he was criticized
when I joined him as not a true value
manager because he had invested in names
like Amazon uh you know in the early
2000s and people said you can't possibly
be a value manager if you're investing
in these very high multiple stocks and
uh you know Bill used to joke that he
liked to hire people young so he could
imprint them like the baby bird that
whatever the first thing it sees it it
thinks is its mother. So I was
definitely imprinted but uh when Bill
made the point listen we don't know what
the best values in the market are today
because it depends on the future and the
future is unknowable. So no one knows
what they are, but we do know if we look
back over long periods of time what the
best values are because we have
hindsight bias and we can look back and
say well what went up the most? Clearly
that was the most the best value. And if
you look it's always names that can grow
and compound value over a long periods
of time and those types of companies
because their prospects are so promising
they don't tend to trade at low
multiples. So he said as a value manager
why would you have a process where you
explicitly exclude what you know are the
best values in the market? That doesn't
make sense. And I thought, well, yeah,
that just doesn't make sense. Now, to a
contrarian type investor, you know, it's
not easy to because it depends on a
future that's unknowable. It always
does. And so, where can you get that
conviction that that can be challenging,
but I think that had a, you know,
certainly a big impact on me and it's a
core part of our process to look at a
mix of different types of opportunities
in the portfolio.
>> So, you use the word conviction a couple
of times. Uh, opportunity equity has
always been a high conviction fund.
somewhat idiosyncratic strategy. Tell us
a little bit about the fund's philosophy
and what makes it so unique amongst I
don't want to say value funds but funds
that look at uh reasonable purchase
prices for equities.
>> Yeah. Well, I think we are
unconventional and we've always been
unconventional and Bill started the
opportunity trust in 1999 at the peak of
that tech bubble. And the idea was let's
create a fund with the maximum
flexibility possible to go wherever it
wants. And again, there's lots of uh
structures in the business that make
that hard because style boxes don't like
that. People allocators want to put you
in a box and so it hurts demand for your
fund when you're like, "No, I'm just
going to go wherever the best values
are." But the idea was over time that
should allow you to earn better returns
if if executed properly. So I think the
fund has migrated around over time. It
has had a different mix of you know what
we call attractively valued compounders
like Amazon and Alphabet which we own
more classic value names that everyone
would recognize as value like Croup and
General Motors. And then we we like to
look at companies early in their life
because they're more likely to be
misunderstood. there's a wider range of
potential future outcomes. Um, and you
know, a lot of people don't feel
comfortable, especially in the value
investing community where I think it's
it's a more risk averse group who want
to see the value today there, what's
today's value and what's today's price
and again, you know, growth people tend
to look further out in the future. But
we we like to have a mix and I think
that helps the fund do well in different
environments. And let me put a little
flesh on those bones because this
morning the first thing I did was hey
let's see how uh opportunity has done um
year-to- date it has beaten its
benchmark year to date one year
threeyear and since inception. So it's
not just like this is a theoretical
stockpicking approach. It's done better
than average. Is that a fair way to
describe it without getting you into
trouble with the compliance [laughter]
department? Yeah, you're you're going to
get me in trouble with compliance. But
well, I said it, not you. We have had a
good uh track record, especially
relative to value managers, which have
recently, you know, struggled in a very,
you know, growthy sort of market.
>> Since the financial, so let since you
went there, since the financial crisis,
value has been a pretty um ugly lagard
compared to growth. We've uh been in a
very strong era for growth, especially
since the end of the pandemic. What sort
of challenges does that create to
someone that's labeled uh a value
manager?
>> Oh, well, I mean, I think it creates a
lot of value in terms of some people
say, "Oh, you're value. We only want to
talk to you." So, my colleagues here,
she had a conversation the other day and
they were like, "We just don't have any
demand for value. No one cares." We're
like, "But we've done really well and
we're beating the market every year
since Sam took over." And it's like, "It
doesn't matter." Um, so I think it does,
you know, my view is our our primary job
is to deliver for our clients. And so if
we do that, everything else will work
out. I've seen this in this business
time and time again. If you deliver
results, everything else will work
itself out. And so uh, and I I I
strongly believe value will have its
stay uh, in the sun again, but it might
take an ugly market. So I'm not I'm not
hoping for that. So, I've always tried
to figure out a way to more
appropriately describe what you do, what
Bill Miller does. Is it growth at a
reasonable price? Is it value and
growth? Like, how do you sum it up in a
elevator pitch?
>> Well, you know, again, I I think it's
value because if you look at every name
in the portfolio, we think they're all
undervalued. But the value of any
business is the present value of the
future free cash flows. and growth is a
very very important input into you know
that calculation and so um so we are
valuing businesses but I also think it's
important to have diversification
between different types of names in the
portfolio and so uh you know I wouldn't
feel comfortable being fully invested in
this market and all the growth stuff
that has higher valuations you know I
like having some cheaper names in there
that are likely to perform well in a
different sort of environment and
there's really attract attractive values
in the value area that have just just
been left for dead. So we'll be patient
waiting for the market to close those
gaps.
>> So So since patience was brought up,
let's talk about patient capital. What
inspired you to launch the firm and tell
us a little bit of the thinking behind
the name? Um, yeah. So, I think I mean
I've always been pretty driven and I've
always had entrepreneurial interests and
so when I became the co-manager with
Bill on the opportunity fund in 2014, I
was also interested in developing my own
independent track record. So, be Bill
gave me some of his personal money to
run uh independently and be the sole
decision maker. So, at the end of 2019,
that had a a really good track record.
We didn't have an institutional business
at Miller Value Partners. we had back in
the day at leg. But Bill was more
optimizing for the kind of life he
wanted to live. He didn't want to grow
and build a business. Uh so I said,
"Hey, let me go after this institutional
business." And there was at least stated
interest in women and minorityled
opportunities there. So I said, "It
looks like there might be interest in
the marketplace for this." It was
important to me to have I think it's a
great profession for women. I think I've
read a lot of research on the importance
of role models in the industry. So you
know that was uh you know part of my
decision. So we decided to turn it into
a private fund like a hedge fund
structure and uh we did we made the
decision in 2019 and then we actually
launched it in 2020 right in COVID which
was not the best time to
>> not a good time to launch a new
>> whenever I make these big decisions the
market you know goes a little wonky
>> right um so so since you've become the
sole manager of the opportunity equity
strategy is it run the same way it was
how has it changed since Bill has
retired from being co-manager there.
>> Yeah. So, the philosophy and process is
exactly the same as what we've always
done. And uh you know, the the
decision-making is different because it
used to be a co-deision-making
structure. When I first became
co-manager with Bill, he said, "Okay,
great. You're co-manager, but I'm not
going to let some 30some year old tell
me what to do on my fund." And I said,
"I got it. I gota, you know, I have to
convince you." And so, over time, uh,
you know, it became more equal co. And
then I I took it over obviously when he
stepped off at the end of 2022. And
patient capital has acquired this. It's
now a wholly owned subsidiary. Is that
right?
>> Now patient capital is uh you know the
the opportunity trust mutual fund
business and the institutional business
that I started under patient and so the
all the team and the structure. How do
they differ aside from a mutual fund has
its own rules, regulations, and
>> well, that's the primary way. Again, for
me, I like to think one philosophy, one
process, one team, and we're just
looking for the best ideas in the
market, and then if it's appropriate for
the strategy, the mutual fund has more
restrictions on what it can do, even
though it has the widest latitude
possible for a mutual fund. Um, so, you
know, we owned Bitcoin starting in 2020
in the private fund, but we couldn't in
the mutual fund. Now we own the Bitcoin
ETFs, but it would be differences like
that.
>> So that one doesn't think of Bitcoin as
a value trade. Tell us what your
thinking was there.
>> Yeah. Well, my thinking was I really
screwed that one up because Bill got
involved in Bitcoin when it was a couple
hundred a coin. And I was like, "Oh,
this is another one of those things
that's going to go to zero." Because
Bill said, you know, it could go to zero
or but if it goes up, it's going to go
up a lot. And I was like, "I don't need
another thing going to zero." uh big big
big mistake but um you know then it had
its run it made it almost to 20,000 in
2018 you know I again was telling Bill
when it got to 3,000 bill you should he
had a fund and I was like it was a huge
position I was like you should cut it
back you know this is uh you know has
some risk and it went to 20 and then it
did crash but back to 3,000 so that was
another good lesson but by 2020 again I
thought that there was you know
potential inflation risk given all the
uh you know monetary and fiscal
stimulus. Um, and by that time, you
know, Bill was on the phone every day
with institutions and in and, you know,
big in individuals that wanted to get up
to speed. And there was a bullcase early
on about it being digital gold, but I
thought it was very unlikely because
there's one gold and it has a special
psychological space in the investment
universe. But by 2020, I thought it was
much more likely and it was developing
along the path. And usually after you
have these crashes, things don't keep
coming back. And so uh so I bought it in
the fund there on the belief that it was
digital gold which I could actually
analyze and you can look at the market
cap of gold and look at you know the
younger generations are much more
inclined to digital assets. So if this
is a proxy for the long-term potential
here what's the upside and if you do
that math today you know Bitcoin could
be worth 1.3 1.4 million dollars a share
or a coin sometime in the future. And so
again I I still believe that to be the
case. Hm. I would would not have guessed
that. That's a fairly contrarian
perspective for a so-called value
investor. Le let's talk about some other
fairly contrarian approaches.
You were an aspiring inkeeper in
Vermont.
I I have to ask about that because it's
just so off um what I I know of you.
Tell us about Adventures in inkeeping.
Well, uh, I was an inkeeper in Veron,
not the actual inkeeper, but yes, I like
to learn lessons the hard way. That's,
you know, part of my unfortunate lot in
life. And, uh, you know, so 2011, we'd
gone through the financial crisis. Uh,
you know, Bill was this genius. We'd had
a really poor performance. He spent all
his time working. I just had my first
daughter, uh, which totally rearranged
everything in my life and my priorities.
And I was like, you know, do I want to
work that hard? and do that or you know
now I have this daughter and she's so
important to me. So I was considering a
whole bunch of things and uh you know
inkeeper was one of them as crazy as
that sounds because it's so not my thing
like but um and then it was the real
estate obviously bubble and crash and so
um you know I think I had mentioned this
to my family they live in Vermont uh my
dad was like oh the Vermont in is going
up for auction and I was like oh this is
very interesting it's a sign of our
times let me go to this auction. So, my
husband and I went to the auction. Uh,
you know, we I did work on what I
thought the N was worth uh before going
into that. And, uh, you know, there was
a first bid for the N and then we bid
the second bid and then I'm like, what
are you doing? That was crazy. Like,
don't do that again. But that was it. It
was over. There were no there were no
more bids.
>> And so, uh, you know, we ended up with
an inn that was closed down because it
had gone through foreclosure.
Fortunately, my family was all there. So
then I made I compounded the error by
getting my brother-in-law and sister
involved to run the inn. Uh so got
family involved in an absentee business
and you know we also were on a reality
show. We won't go into that. Um
>> did you did you really do a reality
show?
>> Yeah, we did a reality show because I'm
not going to tell you the name because I
don't want you to go watch it but uh I
needed someone to help me figure out how
I was going to run this in but we got it
open. So the the uh auction was in
October. I wanted to get it open by the
holidays because that's obviously the
big ski season there, which we did.
December, you did that.
>> We did that.
>> Yeah. My dad, my husband's dad, we got
everyone involved in getting the in
reopen and we had to figure out how to
get people to come. And so it was it was
not for me. I quickly figured that out,
but you know, we kind of got the
business running and then sold it. So,
>> and and what was the lesson we learned
>> aside from don't scratch your nose at
auctions? Yeah, the lesson was I like
markets. I can sit at my desk and make a
lot of money doing very little versus
managing a chef who has, you know, a lot
of issues on when I tell him the food's
not so good and he thinks he's an artist
and, you know, I [laughter] was like,
"This is not for me." And the the
maximum amount you could make on him
like that was not that much. So,
>> not a lot of bad business model.
>> We we did make some money so it was
okay, but it was a lot of work for uh
you know, how much you could make. Yes.
And you were working full-time.
>> I was working. Yeah, I was working
full-time. So, you know, I wasn't on
site again. I had uh people there
working.
>> That That's an amazing story. Let Let's
talk a little bit about philosophy. You
have talked about Buddhism and stoicism
as related to finance and investing.
Tell us a little bit about that.
>> Yeah. Well, I think in investing in mark
and markets having the right mindset is
probably the most important thing and uh
you know it's a mixture of art and
science and a lot of people think the
scientific part is more important but I
think the art part is more important
because you know there's a lot of data
on how much more you can make in equity
markets over time and so the reason that
you can make more is because you have
these periodic losses and you know I
liken it to dieting it's like people
don't fail at dieting because they don't
know they shouldn't eat the cookie right
like you know you shouldn't eat the
cookie. It's because it's too tempting
and people know you shouldn't sell when
the markets are down uh mostly, but it's
hard to do that because you feel like
you're uh you know your wealth is at
risk. And so I think having tools that
help you have the right structure for
how you think about things and how you
behave are really important. I mean,
some people are naturally wired that way
and different people, you know, have
different abilities, but I think having
certain tools and mindsets can help
anyone be better. And so, uh, you know,
staying calm, understanding that there's
only certain things that are within your
control and that's what you can focus
on. And then understanding that there
will be times when you lose money, but
over time, if again, it's so sensitive
to time horizon. If you have a long time
horizon and you can put your money away
for a long time, there's almost nothing
safer if you have a 20 or 25 year time
horizon. You know, equities have never
been down over that time. US Yeah. US
equities. Yes. Um, and so I meditate
regularly and uh, you know, I keep a
journal and I remember during the COVID
pandemic uh, you know, we were all
locked away, but I was emailing with
Bill and he was reading stoicism and
that kind of got me interested and we
were, you know, he was sharing quotes
and so I think it can really help you in
the moment to make better decisions if
you have these tools. Re
>> recognizing what is and is not within
your control and a sense of calm, it
turns out to be useful in markets. Yeah.
Yeah. Imagine that.
>> Who who who who [laughter] ever would
have guessed that. And yet most people
don't reach that conclusion. They they
go the other direction.
>> So So let's talk a little bit about um
where we are in the state of the market
today. Um I'm watching real time
transcription which five years ago would
have been magic.
>> Um there's been dictation software for
decades. It's always been pretty
terrible. It's amazing how good this is
in real time. So, let's talk a little
bit about artificial intelligence. What
are your thoughts? How does this affect
how you're looking at overall markets
and how you're looking at individual
companies?
>> Yeah. Well, I think it's uh you know,
anyone who knows anything about
technology, I have not heard anyone
who's knowledgeable about this space not
say that it's completely
transformational. And you know more
important you know I I think um you know
the Capital One CEO you know he claims
to have the first fintech at Capital One
because they were very into data but he
said it's bigger than the agricultural
revolution the you know invention of
fire the industrial revolution the
digital revolution and I haven't really
heard anyone dispute that. So there's
lots of questions about how long does it
take, what exactly does it do, are
companies overvalued now? But I think,
you know, anyone who knows anything
believes that the impact of this is just
going to be huge. And so when you're in
that sort of situation in the markets,
you obviously need to be aware and try
to learn, you know, everything you can.
I think we bought Nvidia in January of
2024. The interesting thing about this
is I love markets because they're so
interesting, but and they're complex
adaptive systems which make them very
very difficult to outperform. They're
extremely difficult, but they adapt. And
so what's interesting to me is that we
have this AI bubble, you know, uh,
hysteria basically where everyone it's
all you read all the time. And that
makes sense given that we've had, you
know, the tech bubble, we had the
housing bubble, uh we've had some of
these bubbles, but I think uh and it's
possible that, you know, there will be
something negative here. But you're not
seeing valuations at all in line with
what we saw in the tech bubble. And the
companies that are spending these
enormous amounts of money, which they
are very large sums of money, they're
basically the best companies that ever
existed in the history of the world. if
you look at their returns on capital,
their free cash flow margin, uh you
know, their revenue growth rates and so
um so I like that there's all this AI
bubble talk because it keeps a lid on
the valuations. I think it actually
makes it more sustainable. Not that
there, you know, I would have concern
and some of the companies like OpenAI,
which you know had under four billion in
revenues last year and has committed to$
1.4 trillion dollars in spend. So we're
watching that very closely. And I think
for me I have children and I'm thinking
what does this mean for the future of
employment and is you know what can I
advise them to go into which I think
that's a much tougher question now than
>> so so I'm glad you went over there
because I wanted to ask you've talked
about the value of mentorship about
training young people whether analysts
or fund managers what have you if you
look at the unemployment rate today at
uh and then you look at the college
graduate under 30 unemployment. It's
more than double that. It's in the
nines. What does AI do for that
demographic
learning to being mentored, learning a
trade, being able to get a job at an
entry level when their competition seems
to be software?
>> Yeah, I mean, it's a great question. I'm
not sure I have the answer to that. I
mean what we know is you can look at
industries adopting AI and those that
haven't and there's clearly an impact on
junior hires. So it is having an impact
and uh you know Dario Amade the CEO of
anthropic has said he believes that the
white collar unemployment rate uh will
be you know 5 to 25% in one to five
years. So huge impact and so I think it
you know that's why I'm thinking like
what do you advise young people to do? I
think I asked people at my uh you know
college that I went to where I'm on the
board the professors there they're
trying you know they've worked hard to
set up an AI program and help students
be literate and you know wellversed in
this I think if you can use it as a tool
to your advantage you still need humans
to do this work and so uh you know being
capable in that is really important uh
you know I was at a Santa Fe Institute
meeting a couple weeks ago uh you know
that was on AI and they talked about how
what the models aren't good at, which I
thought was really interesting, is um
complex problem solving and creativity.
So those seem more unique human
endeavors. So leaning into areas where
you know those are critical skills I
think are important, but areas like law
or you know obviously customer service,
coding, some of these areas are getting
quite disrupted.
>> And you're saying complex problem
solving and creativity AI is not great
at those else cannot do it. Now, will
they get there? I don't know. But I
think what's useful is to have a human
who is well-versed and can think
critically about because these models
hallucinate. They'll make up lies.
They'll tell you incorrect information.
They're getting better at that. But
having someone who knows how to check
facts, use different models in different
situations.
um you know that's going to be very
valuable I think who can figure stuff
out that you haven't been taught go and
solve real problems in the real world I
think is also uh valuable
>> so every time we see a back test that's
based on historical data it always looks
great and built into the back test of
the assumption the future is going to
look like the past how much of what
we're seeing in artificial intelligence
is sort of paralleling that hey we're
working off the corpus of all these
documents that have been previously
written. If you want to do something
that's not going to get replaced by AI,
you have to go in a different direction.
>> Yeah. No, I think that's a great point.
I mean, what the models do is they look
at all of the information that's out
there and they can uh, you know, do
things with it instantaneously. And so,
I think there's a belief in the uh
technology community that they will
eventually have a breakthrough where
they can have novel ideas. I you know
that's unclear if and when that'll
happen. Uh you know it hasn't happened
yet. And so you know if you can do that
if you can use ideas in an innovative
way if you can certainly I think in the
investment business for long-term
investors what you've seen is machine
learning and uh large language models
have already been used to optimize
short-term trading models. And um again
we don't compete there because I think
it's extremely difficult uh you know to
compete but I think long-term you know
those models have not been used to think
about long-term investments. You we talk
about time arbitrage and patience and
you know what do we think the world's
going to look like in five 10 15 years.
Uh the future is uncertain. No one
knows. So I don't see how the models are
going to you know get an edge there. I
mean, if they become smarter than all
humans at some point, maybe, but uh
it'll it'll be one of the last things
hopefully. [laughter]
>> So, so are you using AI in your firm?
And and if so, um how
>> we are um and we talk about AI all the
time. And so I, you know, tell the
employees all the time like you have to
be all over this and learn how to use
these models because, you know, they're
going to displace you if you know, not
you specifically, but all of us if we
don't. And so um you know it's still so
early. So I think a lot of what's going
on now is more experimentation both at
big companies and small companies. Um
there was an article in the journal
yesterday about how small businesses
have had uh you know have been
transformed by this because they can do
so many things like I used one to create
a profit sharing plan and I just went
back and forth with chat GBT like no I
don't want this no I want that like what
is this model and it like created it for
me you know with the back and forth and
I sent it to the lawyers and it was good
to go I mean it was good it needed no
changes and so I'd been you know I've
been wanting to do that for a long time
and the team was busy with all sorts of
stuff so I finally just did it and it
probably took me like an hour to do
that. But we try it. We try tools on the
investment side uh you know that are
both specialized and more generalized. I
use chat GPT all the time for you know
everything in terms of doing research
and uh you know it's really you know
quite amazing and we have you know we
have a new tech person that we hired who
has played around with automating and
using agents to do certain tasks that
people did. So I do think it is going to
you know replace some work now. I don't
think we'll have less jobs. People will
just be able to do you know more higher
level work.
>> Make sense. You you earlier compared
this to the dotcoms. What are the
parallels that are a fair comparison to
the late 90s tech and telecom bubble and
what do you think is really separating
this era from the late 1990s? Well, I
think the clearest uh you know parallel
is the market valuation overall is at
high levels that we haven't seen since
then. So I think the market's at 22
times you know the next 12 months
earnings and it peaked at like 25 times
then. So we're you know after the
financial crisis we were at very low
levels and we've spent you know the past
16 years you know uh having great
markets some of the best markets we've
ever had and the valuations have risen.
So I you know again as value managers
that makes us uh you know on alert for
signs that things might be going ary but
there's many more I think more
significant
uh differences. So during that there was
you know I think technology hit 50 times
earnings as a sector and a lot of the
technology companies were losing a ton
of money and there was a lot of you know
debt financing. So there's a lot of
unsustainable things the buildout of uh
you know the fiber networks they were
building for future demand that wasn't
yet there. Um so that's very different
than today. we have this, you know, big
infrastructure buildout, but uh, you
know, there's still shortages of demand.
They can't meet the demand that already
exists. That's a very different
situation. And the companies, uh, that
are building them, you know, building
this infrastructure out for the most
part, uh, are, you know, extremely the
hyperscalers are extremely well
capitalized with great balance sheets,
high free cash flow margins. So, you
know, the risk, that sort of risk
doesn't exist. And also at the end of
the tech bubble, everyone was piled
into, you know, Bill recognized the peak
and actually got out of those names. And
what made him recognize it was that, you
know, I think in the first quarter of
2000, um, you know, the a very high
percent like 75% of money managers
outperformed and only two sectors
outperformed, tech and telek. And so
everyone was piled in to a very narrow
area of the market that is not at all,
you know, what you're seeing now. And so
I just now, you know, I think the the
bare case would be that for some reason,
you know, the demand doesn't exist and,
you know, the spend rolls over. Again, I
still think it would be a much more
modest uh, you know, pullback just
because of those underlying, you know,
fundamental business factors. There are
are other areas of the market like
quantum computing and nuclear fision
that are much more speculative that have
already pulled back 50% actually just in
this decline. So that also is a good
thing. I think it keeps the market
healthier longer.
>> So you don't explicitly talk about
economic cycles, but every now and then
I hear you drifting over to unemployment
and growth and infrastructure and um
economist type speaks. How often do you
use what's going on in the broader
economy as part of your process? Do you
think about that? Are economic cycles
significant to your process or is the
economy going to do what it's going to
do and it doesn't interfere with your
approach?
>> Well, we definitely try to understand
what's going on in the economy because
it can have, you know, big impacts on,
you know, investments. Uh, you know,
there's a lot of no one can forecast the
economy. You know, there's a lot of good
evidence that no one does that.
Economists don't do it. Investors don't
do it. So, it's a feudal effort. A lot
of people claim that they have some view
about the future of the world, but
>> what do we see in a recession forecast
by every year for the past three or four
years? They'll get it right eventually,
>> right? Um and so, you know, the best
strategy is just, you know, if you have
a long time horizon to stay invested,
but we want to be aware of risks and the
impact. I mean, our whole process is
analyzing the fundamentals of businesses
and looking at what the intrinsic value
looks like. And that's a distribution of
outcomes because the future's uncertain.
So, we're doing different scenarios. And
then we compare it to market
expectations. And so, we like a clear
gap in those two things. Um, and we
like, you know, better riskrewards. But
we there's a lot that goes into both
both of those things. Uh, you know,
sentiment goes into the market
expectations. uh you know where people
are positioned and you know obviously
the economic cycle for certain
businesses has a big impact. It's very
sensitive to your time horizon you know
just how much it matters and the longer
your time horizon the less it matters.
>> So you mentioned sentiment I'm trying to
remember a moment in history where
collectively the investor class the
pundit class the media all in real time
identified a major market bubble
[laughter] at once. Is it is it just too
glib to say, "Hey, everybody's
forecasting a bubble, therefore it can't
be a bubble."
>> Well, I'm a contrarian, so you know,
like that that kind of uh you know,
thinking appeals to me. I think it is
true that usually what you know Howard
Marx wrote a great memo on the whole
tech space in January and you know I
thought the most important line in that
was uh you know a bubble is
characterized by psychological extremess
and so it is that psychological state uh
so we're not when everyone's bemoning a
bubble and fearing a bubble and claiming
a bubble that makes a bubble much less
likely because people are then not
positioned in it and usually where the
biggest risks are are not where your
focus on if you know there's a risk in a
certain area you treat it much
differently you manage it much
differently if everyone's doing that uh
you know Nvidia you know so so the risk
would be Nvidia's earnings are
unsustainable and they've had this huge
runup and they're they've captured so
far about 90% of the economic profits in
AI um again I they're going to report
tomorrow night uh if I were a betting
man which I'm not I'm an investing woman
but uh you know I would say they're
going to beat and then the market might
really like that because it's coming
into it, you know, oversold. But I think
the risk is there's something happens to
earnings, you know, and and they have an
earning cycle. Um, again, I don't see
that in the near term, but there's no,
you know, valuation,
you know, excesses are just not there.
Like these companies, if you look at
Nvidia's growing, you know, 40 plus
percent this year, trading at 28 times
next year's earnings. That is not a
bubble at, you know, that's not bubble
valuations at all. Well, it's not what
we saw in the tech bubble. Um, so again,
I think it is true that when everyone's
worried about a bubble, it's likely not
a bubble.
>> So, people have been talking about a
K-shaped economy that the upper arm is
doing great, the lower arm is doing
poorly. Can you apply the same thing to
valuations with the market? If you take
the top 10 or 20 stocks, they seem to be
much more richly valued than the rest of
the whatever you want to use, Wilshshire
5000 or S&P 500. How do you think about
that bifurcation?
>> Yeah. Well, I think there are certain
areas uh you know in the market like
quality or uh like return on capital
where those again if you have high
quality high return on capital um high
free cash flow margins those companies
should be valued at you know overall a
higher level but we've seen very wide
gaps there. So I think I I have a huge
respect for the market though. because
we're every day we're doing the work on
okay let's this company might be
attractive let's do the work on that and
see what the market's pricing in and
we'll say what is the market telling us
this business can do and usually the
market's pretty good at like okay yeah
that's the easiest case to make and the
market will reflect that. So, um, it's
more anomalous to find areas where
that's wrong. Especially, you know, the
markets had a huge move up. Uh, so the
more it moves up, the harder it is, but
we're still finding, you know,
opportunities. I think we added
significantly to healthcare and small
caps, uh, you know, earlier this year.
And healthcare until recently was at a
50-year relative valuation low. And
those are good businesses with good
returns on capital. And so, uh, you
know, the market gets so hyper
short-term focused. You know, so many
people these days are focused on the
next quarter and they want to outperform
every month and every quarter. So again,
if you can look out longer, I think you
you do have opportunities, but the
reason people don't is because you
sometimes have more downside in the
short term if you're buying into uh you
know, weakness. So, how do you think
overall about valuation and future
return expectations when generally the
markets had a good run and valuations
are um if not bubbleicious a little more
rich than average?
>> Yeah, I mean my view on valuations is
they're at the high end of the
historical range. So again that makes me
more alert, more cautious. I think if
you look uh you know at the underlying
fundamentals and just the returns on
capital of businesses the free cash flow
margins the balance sheets higher
valuations are justified but markets go
through these cycles of undervaluation
to overvaluation and then back again and
so that's just part of markets um you
know again I I don't think we're at you
know levels that I'm extremely concerned
I still think there are you know
attractive opportunities in markets but
where we can add balance to the
portfolio defensive areas like
healthcare. Again, I think that helps
position the portfolio for a variety of
different sorts of environments and
there's still plenty of cheap air, you
know, cheap cheap names in the market.
>> Um, so I have three of my favorite
questions I always ask guests, but
before I get to that, I want to throw a
little bit of a curveball at you. What
do you think investors are not talking
about when when they're not thinking
about AI bubbles? What are they
overlooking? What topics or ideas or
strategies are they just not thinking
about that perhaps they should be?
>> Yeah. Well, that's a really hard one
because I think uh you know there's so
many investors out there thinking about
so many things and now in today's day
and age with great podcasts like yours
and Twitter and X and all the research
online, you can get access to all of the
thinking. So, uh you know, I'm not sure
that there's things people aren't
thinking about that much, but I would
say you know, one of my biggest lessons
from Bill was the big money are made in
the big moves. And so you need to be
looking for those and you need to, you
know, hold those and and actually
holding them is even harder than looking
for them. Um, and so I think people
focus if you if you have a long time
horizon and you're interested in growing
your wealth, uh, which is what we want
to do. You know, that's our number one
objective is to make money. Um, you
know, I never saw Bill get upset about a
stock that went down or you're losing
money on a certain stock because you
know that, you know, in our business,
you know, the best investors are wrong
about half the time. Like half the
stocks go down and that's just part of
the business. So, you get really
comfortable with being wrong. I never
saw him mad. I saw him mad when he
identified a stock, Qualcomm, and an
analyst said, "No, this is really bad
investment. Like, don't buy it." And
then it went up 10 times. because he's
like you just don't get the opportunity
to make money and most of those type of
errors when something's not in your
portfolio you don't see it you don't
notice it's not there but it has a huge
impact on you know your ability to grow
wealth so I I think there's not enough
discussion about that and uh you know if
you look at endowment returns I think
for the last decade they're like 6.8% 8%
on average. And so the the US equity
market's up over 13%. So that's a huge
shortfall that if you do the math on
like 30 years of 13 versus 6.8, it's
like you either you're up seven times
versus you're up 30 plus times. I mean
that compounding math is it's shocking
actually even to me who I'm in this
business. I know patients. I'm all about
compounding and I do the math and I'm
like, "Oh my goodness, the amount of
wealth left on the table."
>> All right, so let's jump to our our
speed round and then afterwards we'll
open it up for questions from the
audience. Um, I always like to get book
ideas from people. Tell us what you're
reading and what are some of your
favorite books.
>> Well, I'm not read right now. What I'm
reading is 1929 by Andrew Russ. And so
that's nothing new. Everyone's reading
that, but I think it's it's in the
>> probably helping with all the bubble
talk. Well, it's, you know, you have to
be aware and I think studying history is
really important. Um, you know, I think,
have you read The Comfort Crisis by
Michael Easter? That's a really good
book and uh you know my kids get sick of
me preaching but it's all about how you
know we are in a society where you know
it's all about comfort and and the
benefits of uh you know he has this
thing misogi where he goes into nature
and does really physically challenging
things that are challenging enough that
he will and it's not his thing it's
actually a Japanese thing but that you
are most likely to fail but you and make
it challenging enough
just shy of like maybe dying. So again,
I'm not a pro I'm not a proponent of
taking it to that level, but I am a
proponent of uh you know, if you listen
to Jensen Wong at NVIDIA and he talks
about the value of pain and suffering
and he's like he talks about being a
CEO. He's like a lot of people want to
be a CEO. He's like, but the experience
is not power and glory. It's pain and
suffering and like the all the hardest
problems come to you. So I think, you
know, exposing yourself to things out of
your comfort zone where you have the
opportunity to grow and have some pain.
I, you know, I think that's kind of what
makes life interesting. And so that
would be a book that I would recommend.
>> So final two questions. What sort of
advice would you give to a recent
college grad interested in a career in
investing in finance?
>> Well, I mean back to my experience, I
would say go for it and be persistent. I
mean, we have a few job postings now and
so we're trying to fill those postings
and it's amazing to me, you know, a lot
of people will go on LinkedIn and
they'll blast out their resume to
everywhere and that they're putting very
little time and little thought into
that. And we actually have on our site,
you have to email it and we're paying
attention to who's actually reading that
instruction and emailing it. But very
few people follow up. I think we had one
candidate who followed up like three
times and it makes a huge difference.
you know, it demonstrates interest, it
demonstrates, you know, you're paying
attention to it. So, I would say in a in
a tough job environment, uh, especially,
it's it's easier than you think to
distinguish yourself if you're actually
interested in something, you know,
perseverance, taking the time to learn
really what the firm is, the person
you're talking to, who they are, what
they're trying to accomplish with this.
It's amazing to me how little people
actually spend doing that.
Good, good advice. And our final
question, what do you know about the
world of investing today would have been
useful 25 years ago or so when you were
first getting started?
>> Yeah, buy Nvidia. I know you told me I
couldn't do this. Buy Amazon, buy
Bitcoin, don't miss, you know, but uh if
there's a broader point, I mean, part of
it is like, you know, again, this kind
of will go full circle, but the power of
patience and compounding. Again, it's
like teach what you need to learn. But
Bill used to tell me when I was young,
because I'd be like, "Bill, you know, I
need to make more money. I need to find
more stocks. You need to give me more
responsibilities." And like, "Calm down.
Like, be patient." I'm like, "No, I
can't be patient. My friend who I
graduated with, he's at Goldman Sachs.
He's making like $10 million a year."
And he's like, "Calm down." And uh, you
know, now 20 years, 25 years later, it
is amazing just the power of
compounding. If you find a name like
Amazon or you know, and you invest and
again, you're going to have a couple you
know, number of big draw downs and
those, you know, stocks that go up a lot
go down a lot and that's just part of
the journey. But it's so easy to
underestimate, you know, just how
powerful that can be.
If you enjoy this conversation, check
out any of the 589 we've done over the
previous [music] 11 and a half years.
You can find those at iTunes, Spotify,
YouTube, Bloomberg, wherever you find
your favorite podcast. And be sure and
check out my new book, How Not to
Invest: The Ideas, Numbers, and Behavior
That Destroys Wealth and How to Avoid
Them, wherever you get your books at. I
would be remiss if I didn't thank the
crack team that helps put these
conversations together [music]
each week. Alexis Noriega is my video
producer. Sean [snorts] Russo is my
researcher. Anna Luke is my producer.
Sage Bowman is the head of podcast at
Bloomberg. I'm Barry Roltz. You've been
listening to Masters [music] in Business
on Bloomberg Radio.